📖  Bento: Adopt new formatting for `amp-base-carousel` documentation (#32212)
ampproject/amphtml: extensions/amp-base-carousel/amp-base-carousel.md

The carousel advances between items if the user swipes or uses the customizable
arrow buttons.

### Standalone use outside valid AMP documents

<!-- TODO: Remove backticks from link when guide is live -->

Bento AMP allows you to use AMP components in non-AMP pages without needing to commit to fully valid AMP. You can take these components and place them in implementations with frameworks and CMSs that don't support AMP. Read more in our guide `[Use AMP components in non-AMP pages](https://amp.dev/documentation/guides-and-tutorials/start/bento_guide/)`.

#### Example

The example below demonstrates `amp-base-carousel` component in standalone use.

```

> <head>

Author: Done.

    document.querySelector('#next-button').onclick = () => api.next();
    document.querySelector('#go-to-button').onclick = () => api.goToSlide(2);
  })();
</script>
```

#### Interactivity and API usage

Bento enabled components in standalone use are highly interactive through their API. In Bento standalone use, the element's API replaces AMP Actions and events and [`amp-bind`](https://amp.dev/documentation/components/amp-bind/?format=websites).

The `amp-base-carousel` component API is accessible by including the following script tag in your document:

```
await customElements.whenDefined('amp-base-carousel');
const api = await carousel.getApi();
```

##### Actions

The `amp-base-carousel` API allows you to perform the following actions:

**next()**
Moves the carousel forwards by `advance-count` slides.

```
api.next();
```

**prev()**
Moves the carousel backwards by `advance-count` slides.

```
api.prev();
```

**goToSlide(index: number)**
Moves the carousel to the slide specified by the `index` argument.

```
api.goToSlide(0); // Advance to first slide.
api.goToSlide(length - 1); // Advance to last slide.
```

> 

Reviewer: Do they need to include `index:` in the argument? Or just the index number?

Author: Just the index. The `index: number` is to give the parameter a type, but let me specify this inline instead so it's less confusing, something like this:
```suggestion
**goToSlide(index)**
Args:
  - `index`: number [required]
Moves the carousel to the slide specified by the `index` argument.

\```
api.goToSlide(0); // Advance to first slide.
api.goToSlide(length - 1); // Advance to last slide.
\```

```

Reviewer 2: TypeScript-like notation here I think is the best in the long term. We are also likely to publish TypeScript type declarations (based on our `x.type.js`) in the future too.

Author: @dvoytenko are you suggesting keep as is?

##### Events

The `amp-base-carousel` API allows you to register and respond to the following events:

**slideChange**

This event is triggered when the index displayed by the carousel has changed.
The new index is available via `event.data.index`.

```
carousel.addEventListener('slideChange', (e) => console.log(e.data.index))
```

#### Layout and style

Each Bento component has a small CSS library you must include to guarantee proper loading without [content shifts](https://web.dev/cls/). Because of order-based specificity, you must manually ensure that stylesheets are included before any custom styles.

```
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://cdn.ampproject.org/v0/amp-base-carousel-1.0.css">
```

Fully valid AMP pages use the AMP layout system to infer sizing of elements to create a page structure before downloading any remote resources. However, Bento use imports components into less controlled environments and AMP's layout system is inaccessible.

**Container type**

> The `amp-base-carousel` component has a defined layout size type. To ensure the component renders correctly, be sure to apply a size to the component and its immediate children (slides) via `height` and `width` or `aspect-ratio`:

Reviewer 2: Maybe "via a desired CSS layout (such as `height`, `width`, `aspect-ratio`, and other)"? Just want to stress that any CSS layout rules would work.

Author: Done.

  <amp-img layout="flex-item" src="…"></amp-img>
</amp-base-carousel>
```

The slides have a default height of `100%` when the carousel is laid out
horizontally. This can easily be changed with CSS or by using
`layout="fixed-height"`. When specifying the height, the slide will be
vertically centered within the carousel.

If you want to horizontally center your slide content, you will want to create a
wrapping element, and use that to center the content.

#### Number of Visible Slides

When changing the number of visible slides using `visible-slides`, in response
to a media query, you will likely want to change the aspect ratio of the
carousel itself to match the new number of visible slides. For example, if you
want to show three slides at a time with a one by one aspect ratio, you would
want an aspect ratio of three by one for the carousel itself. Similiarly, with
four slides at a time you would want an aspect ratio of four by one. In
addition, when changing `visible-slides`, you likely want to change
`advance-count`.

```html
<!-- Using an aspect ratio of 3:2 for the slides in this example. -->
<amp-base-carousel
  layout="responsive"
  width="3"
  height="1"

>   heights="(min-width: 600px) calc(100% * 4 * 3 / 2), calc(100% * 3 * 3 / 2)"

Reviewer 2: Hmm. I think we should continue advising to use CSS for this. E.g. 

```
<style>
  #carousel1 {
    height: calc(100% * 3 * 3 / 2);
  }
  @media (min-width: 600px) {
    #carousel1 {
      height: calc(100% * 4 * 3 / 2);
    }
  }
</style>
```

Of course, that'd split the media queries between the element and the attributes. But IMHO it's better to fix one part of it than both have two parts "broken". We can also communicate later that we are pursuing Web spec update to support attribute media queries as well.

Author: To clarify, this section is moved verbatim from its former location in the file, and the code samples here were created with the intention of being used on valid AMP documents. Do you still recommend making the change? Or perhaps duplicating the section so there is one version for valid AMP documents (status quo) and one version with the suggested CSS for Bento documents?

Reviewer 2: If it's for valid AMP, then let's keep as is. Sorry for the confusion. But I think we'll be stumbling into these deltas for some time.
